# Software domain overview

## Glossary

| Term | Definition |
|---|---|
| Software requirement | Traceable element of the software requirements defining a requirement to be implemented. |
| Software component | Traceable element of the software architecture representing an indivisible architectural element that addresses one or more needs specified by software requirements. |
| Software interface | Traceable element of the software architecture defining the interaction between software components. |
| Software parameter | Traceable element of the software architecture defining configurable or fixed values that affect the software behavior. |
| Software design | Traceable element of the software architecture defining architectural decisions. |
| Software unit | Traceable element of the detailed design built as a static library (`.a`). |
| Software integration test | Traceable element validating the software architecture. |
| Software qualification test | Traceable element validating the software requirements. |

## Processes

- [sw-requirements](processes/sw-requirements.md)
- [sw-architecture](processes/sw-architecture.md)
- [sw-detailed-design](processes/sw-detailed-design.md)
- [sw-implementation](processes/sw-implementation.md)
- [sw-unit-test](processes/sw-unit-test.md)
- [sw-integration-test](processes/sw-integration-test.md)
- [sw-qualification-test](processes/sw-qualification-test.md)

## Work products organization

The software domain shall be organized by process. Where applicable, processes shall have dedicated folders containing their generated work products. The structure shall be as follows:

```text
sw/
  req/
  arch/
  src/
    i_test/
      <integration_test_name>/
        doc/
        inc/
        src/
    q_test/
      <qualification_test_name>/
        doc/
        inc/
        src/
    <software-unit>/
      doc/
      inc/
      src/
      u_test/
    ...
```

The `sw/req/` folder contains the work products generated by the `sw-requirements` process (only Markdown documents: `.md`).
The `sw/arch/` folder contains the work products generated by the `sw-architecture` process (only Markdown documents: `.md`).

The `sw/src/i_test/<integration_test_name>/doc/` folder contains the work products for a specific integration test generated by the `sw-integration-test` process (only Markdown documents: `.md`).
The `sw/src/i_test/<integration_test_name>/inc/` folder contains the work products for a specific integration test generated by the `sw-integration-test` process (only C header files: `.h`).
The `sw/src/i_test/<integration_test_name>/src/` folder contains the work products for a specific integration test generated by the `sw-integration-test` process (only C source files: `.c`).

The `sw/src/q_test/<qualification_test_name>/doc/` folder contains the work products for a specific qualification test generated by the `sw-qualification-test` process (only Markdown documents: `.md`).
The `sw/src/q_test/<qualification_test_name>/inc/` folder contains the work products for a specific qualification test generated by the `sw-qualification-test` process (only C header files: `.h`).
The `sw/src/q_test/<qualification_test_name>/src/` folder contains the work products for a specific qualification test generated by the `sw-qualification-test` process (only C source files: `.c`).

The `sw/src/<software-unit>/doc/` folder contains the work products for a specific software unit generated by the `sw-detailed-design` process (only Markdown documents: `.md`).
The `sw/src/<software-unit>/inc/` folder contains the work products for a specific software unit generated by the `sw-detailed-design` process (only C header files: `.h`).
The `sw/src/<software-unit>/src/` folder contains the work products for a specific software unit generated by the `sw-implementation` process (only C source files: `.c`).

The `sw/src/<software-unit>/u_test/<unit_test_name>/doc/` folder contains the work products for a specific unit test generated by the `sw-unit-test` process (only Markdown documents: `.md`).
The `sw/src/<software-unit>/u_test/<unit_test_name>/inc/` folder contains the work products for a specific unit test generated by the `sw-unit-test` process (only C header files: `.h`).
The `sw/src/<software-unit>/u_test/<unit_test_name>/src/` folder contains the work products for a specific unit test generated by the `sw-unit-test` process (only C source files: `.c`).

Software unit folders may be nested to support logical grouping and hierarchical organization according to software complexity. In folders used only for grouping (i.e., not representing a software unit), the `doc/`, `inc/`, `src/`, and `u_test/` folders shall not be present.

## Resources

- Software test definition. See [resources/software_test_definition.md](resources/software_test_definition.md).
- Custom CMake functions. See [resources/custom_cmake_functions.md](resources/custom_cmake_functions.md).
- Embedded C coding guidelines. See [resources/embedded_c_coding_guidelines.md](resources/embedded_c_coding_guidelines.md).
- ASM formatter tool. See [resources/asm_format.md](resources/asm_format.md).
- Embedded target remote debugging. See [resources/embedded_target_remote_debugging.md](resources/embedded_target_remote_debugging.md).
- Embedded target remote logging. See [resources/embedded_target_remote_logging.md](resources/embedded_target_remote_logging.md).
- Embedded target remote HiL testing. See [resources/embedded_target_remote_HiL_testing.md](resources/embedded_target_remote_HiL_testing.md).
