# Hardware domain overview

## Glossary

| Term | Definition |
|---|---|
| Hardware requirement | Traceable element of the hardware requirements defining a requirement to be implemented. |
| Hardware component | Traceable element of the hardware architecture representing an indivisible architectural element that addresses one or more needs specified by hardware requirements.  |
| Hardware interface | Traceable element of the hardware architecture defining the interaction between hardware components or between hardware and external elements. |
| Hardware parameter | Traceable element of the hardware architecture defining values that affect the hardware solution. |
| Hardware-software interface | Work product defining the traceable elements from the hardware domain that are relevant for the software domain. |
| Hardware integration test | Traceable element validating the hardware architecture. |
| Hardware qualification test | Traceable element validating the hardware requirements. |

## Processes

- [hw-requirements](processes/hw-requirements.md)
- [hw-architecture](processes/hw-architecture.md)
- [hw-implementation](processes/hw-implementation.md)
- [hw-integration-test](processes/hw-integration-test.md)
- [hw-qualification-test](processes/hw-qualification-test.md)

## Work products organization

The hardware domain shall be organized by process. Where applicable, processes shall have dedicated folders containing their generated work products. The structure shall be as follows:

```text
hw/
  req/
  arch/
  src/
    i_test/
      <integration_test_name>/
        doc/
        src/
    q_test/
      <qualification_test_name>/
        doc/
        src/
    <hardware-assembly>/
      sch/
      pcb/
      export/
    ...
```

The `hw/req/` folder contains the work products generated by the `hw-requirements` process (only Markdown documents: `.md`).
The `hw/arch/` folder contains the work products generated by the `hw-architecture` process (only Markdown documents: `.md`).

The `hw/src/i_test/<integration_test_name>/doc/` folder contains the work products for a specific integration test generated by the `hw-integration-test` process (only Markdown documents: `.md`).
The `hw/src/i_test/<integration_test_name>/src/` folder contains the work products for a specific integration test generated by the `hw-integration-test` process (only Python source files: `.py`).

The `hw/src/q_test/<qualification_test_name>/doc/` folder contains the work products for a specific qualification test generated by the `hw-qualification-test` process (only Markdown documents: `.md`).
The `hw/src/q_test/<qualification_test_name>/src/` folder contains the work products for a specific qualification test generated by the `hw-qualification-test` process (only Python source files: `.py`).

The `hw/src/<hardware-assembly>/sch/` folder contains the work products for a specific hardware assembly generated by the `hw-implementation` process (only Python source files: `.py`).
The `hw/src/<hardware-assembly>/pcb/` folder contains the work products for a specific hardware assembly generated by the `hw-implementation` process when the hardware assembly requires a PCB (only KiCad project files).
The `hw/src/<hardware-assembly>/export/` folder contains the exported elements for a specific hardware assembly generated by the `hw-implementation` process.

Hardware assembly folders may be nested to support logical grouping and hierarchical organization according to hardware complexity. In folders used only for grouping (i.e., not representing a hardware assembly), the `sch/`, `pcb/`, and `export/` folders shall not be present.

## Resources

- Hardware test definition. See [resources/hardware_test_definition.md](resources/hardware_test_definition.md).
- SKiDL guidelines. See [resources/skidl_guidelines.md](resources/skidl_guidelines.md).
- KiCad libraries for JLCPCB and LCSC. See [resources/kicad_libraries_for_jlcpcb_lcsc.md](resources/kicad_libraries_for_jlcpcb_lcsc.md).
- KiCad workflow. See [resources/kicad_workflow.md](resources/kicad_workflow.md).
